SPEAKER: M1
Less than six point two away initialization. In the previous video a lesson. We learned. What is an array and how to declare the array without initialization. In this video. Lesson. We will learn how to initialize near raised declared. After an array has been declared. It must be initialized. Arrays can be initialized at compile time after declaring them. The format for initializing an array type specify a. Array name. Square bracket array size square bracket. Equals curly bracket. List of values. Curly bracket. For example. We can first define a constant called months to be a value. Twelve. Integer days square bracket month square brackets will declare an array called days with 12 elements. When they rake Will's curly bracket with 12 listed items separated by commas we have initialized the array days with 12 data items. An array can also be declared and initialized partially in which the number of elements in the curly bracket list is less than the number of array elements. In this example. An array of size twelve is declared but only the first seven elements of the array are initialized. After the first seven array elements are initialized. The remaining array elements will be initialized to 0. In addition. An array can also be declared and initialize and without explicitly indicating the NRA size. The declaration into today's square brackets square brackets equals curly brackets 31 Comma 2 8. 31 comma 3 0. 31 comma 3 0. 31 curly bracket is valid. It declares days as in array of 7 Elements. As there are 7 elements in the list. Let's do a summary on the initialization of array. We can initialize array variables at declaration. In this example should an. Array of size 12 is declared and all elements are initialized. We can also do a partial array initialization. In this example shown an. Array of size 12 this declared but only the first seven elements are initialized. The rest of the elements will take the value of 0. We can also omit the size in array declaration. In the example shown. The array declared will be an array of seven elements. Since there are seven elements in the list. We will cover operations on arrays in the next video. Lesson.