SPEAKER: M1
This lesson is on functions. There are six main sections to cover for functions. This video focused on the fifth topic. Storage scope and variables. Learning objectives. At this lesson. You should be able to. Discuss the storage scope the variables. Identify local and global variables and use them appropriately in a program. The storage class in a variable is a set of properties about the variable. It is determined by where it is defined and which key word that is auto. X10. Static or register. It is used with. The storage class. If a variable determines the scope. Linkage and storage duration of the variable. The scope determines the region of the code that can use the variable. In other words. The variable is visible in that section of code. The linkage determines how a variable can be used in a multiple source file program. It identifies whether the variable can only be used in the current source file. Or it can be used in other source files with proper declarations. The storage duration of a c variable can be static or automatic. The storage duration determines how long the variable can exist in memory. The variables radius. PI and area in the program shown are not visible outside. This function. Variables declared in that function is only visible within that function. We call it block scope. Automatic or auto variables are declared with the storage class keyword auto inside the body of a function not block. A block contains a complex statement that is enclosed by braces. We can define an automatic variable by using the storage class keyword auto as auto int i. J. K. All we can limit the key when auto. An automatic variable has automatic storage. The lifetime with an automatic variable is only within the function or block where it is defined. It has no meaning outside the function or block. It is also called the local variable of the corresponding function or block. Automatic variables are destroyed after the execution of the corresponding function or block where they are defined.