SPEAKER: M1
This lesson is on control structures branching. There are five main sections to cover flood control structures branching. This video lesson focuses on the fourth part. The switch statements. Learning Objectives. After this lesson. You should be able to. Execute a program using switch statement. The switch statement provides a multi way decision structure in which one of the several statements is executed depending on the value of an expression. The syntax of a switch statement is shown here. Where switch. The case. Brain can default to reserve key words. The result of expression in brackets must be integral type. Constant 1. Constant 2. Etc. recall the labels. Each must be an integer constant. A character constant Warren into constant expression. For example 3. A. 4 plus B. 5 plus 7. Etc.. Each of the labels must deliver a unique integer value. Duplicates I'm not allowed. Multiple labels are also allowed. For example. To support both lower and upper case selection. In the switch statement. Statement one is executed only when the expression has the value constant 1. The default part is optional. If it is their. Statement D is executed when expression has a value different from all the values specified by all the cases. The brake statement signals the end of a particular case and causes the execution of the switch statement to be terminated. Each of the statement the first of may be a single statement terminated by a semicolon or a compound statement enclosed by braces. The switch statement is a better construct than multiple false statements. However. There are several restrictions in the use of the switch statement. The expression of the switch statement must return a result of integer or character deg to type. The value in the constant one part must be an integer constraint or character constant. Moreover. It does not support a range of values to be specified. The switch statement. Example the switch statement is quite commonly used in manual driven applications. In this program. It uses the switch statement for menu driven selection. The program displays a list of arithmetic operations that is addition. Subtraction and multiplication that the user can enter. Then. The user selects the operation command. And enters two operations. The switch statement is then used to control which operation is to be executed based on user selection. The control is transferred to the appropriate branch of the case. Condition based on the variable choice. The statements under the case condition are executed and the result of the operation will be printed. In addition. We may also have multiple labels for a statement. As such. We also allow the choice to be specified in both lowercase and uppercase letters and by the user. The same program on supporting arithmetic operation can also be implemented using the effects of false statements. Generally. The switch statements can be replaced by a false and false statements. However. As labels in the switch construct must be constant values that use integer. Character or expression. We will not be able to convert certain if false statements into switch statements. In the switch statement. The break statement is placed at the end of each case. What will happen if we omit the break statement. For example. If the switch statement is modified as follows. In this example. The break statement is a message for the case is on addition and subtraction. If the user enters the choice. A. What will be the outputs of the program. The brake statement is used to end each case constant block statement. If we do not put the brake statement in the switch statement. Execution will continue with the statements from the subsequent case labels until a brake statement or the end of the switch statement is reached. Therefore. If the brake statement is omitted. The input and output from the program will become like the one shown. If we do not use brake after some statements in the switch statement. Execution will continue with the statements from the subsequent labels until a brake statement or the end of switch statement. This is called the Follow Through situation. By the end of the lesson. You should be able to do the listed.